docs: reference page for KeptnConfig (#1239)
keptn/lifecycle-toolkit: docs/content/en/docs/yaml-crd-ref/config.md

description: Define configuration values
weight: 20
---

`KeptnConfig` defines configuration values for the Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit.

> Currently, it is used to configure the URL of the OpenTelemetry collector.

Reviewer: There's a second config option that will be introduced with the next KLT release so I guess it should already be part of this page then: https://main.lifecycle.keptn.sh/docs/crd-ref/options/v1alpha1/#keptnconfigspec

Author: Added to synopsis and example, but need to check that I did it correctly.  I think there might be more to say.

Author: done

## Yaml Synopsis

```yaml
apiVersion: options.keptn.sh/v?alpha?
kind: KeptnConfig
metadata:

>   name: <collector-name>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  name: <configuration-name>
```

spec:
  OTelCollectorUrl: '<otelurl:port>'
```

## Fields

* **apiVersion** -- API version being used.
`
* **kind** -- Resource type.
   Must be set to `KeptnConfig`.`

* **metadata**

>   * **name** -- Unique name of this collector.
>     This is the name that identifies this collector
>     in the `KeptnConfigList` CR.
>     * Must be an alphanumeric string and, by convention, is all lowercase.
>     * Can include the special characters `_`, `-`, (others?)
>     * Should not include spaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * **name** -- Unique name of this set of configuration.
    * Must be an alphanumeric string and, by convention, is all lowercase.
    * Can include the special characters `_`, `-`, (others?)
    * Should not include spaces.
```

Author: done

## Usage

The `KeptnConfigList` CR is generated automatically

> and contains a list of all valid `KeptnConfig` CR's.

Reviewer: I don't think this info is needed at all. The list objects for all CRDs are basically just internal API objects that will never be seen directly by a user

Author: Removed

Author: deleted

description: Define configuration values
weight: 20
---

`KeptnConfig` defines configuration values for the Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit.

## Yaml Synopsis

```yaml
apiVersion: options.keptn.sh/v?alpha?
kind: KeptnConfig
metadata:
  name: <configuration-name>
spec:
  OTelCollectorUrl: '<otelurl:port>'
  keptnAppCreationRequestTimeoutSeconds: <#-seconds>
```

## Fields

* **apiVersion** -- API version being used.

> `

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

* **kind** -- Resource type.

>    Must be set to `KeptnConfig`.`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Must be set to `KeptnConfig`.
```

* **metadata**
  * **name** -- Unique name of this set of configurations.
    Names must comply with the
    [Kubernetes Object Names and IDs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/names/#dns-subdomain-names)
    specification.

* **spec**

>   * **oTelCollectorUrl** -- The URL and port of the OpenTelemetry collector

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * **OTelCollectorUrl** -- The URL and port of the OpenTelemetry collector
```

  * **keptnAppCreationRequestTimeoutSeconds** --
    interval in which automatic app discovery searches for workloads
    to put into the same auto-generated [KeptnApp](app.md).

Each cluster should have a single `KeptnConfig` CRD
that describes all configurations for that cluster.

## Usage

## Example

### oTel example

This example specifies the URL of the OpenTelemetry collector
and the interval for
running the automatic app discovery:

```yaml
apiVersion: options.keptn.sh/v1alpha2
kind: KeptnConfig
metadata:
  name: klt-config
spec:
  OTelCollectorUrl: 'otel-collector:4317'
  keptnAppCreationRequestTimeoutSeconds: 40
```

## Files

API Reference:

* [KeptnTaskDefinition](../crd-ref/lifecycle/v1alpha3/_index.md#keptntaskdefinition)
* [KeptnApp](app.md)

## Differences between versions

The `keptnAppCreationRequestTimeoutSeconds` field

> is new in the `v1alpha2` App version.

Reviewer 3: this is not true, v1alpha2 version of KeptnConfig does not exist, we didn't bump the version, as this additional field was not a breaking change and we introduced a default value of 30 for this parameter

Author: Interesting.  This needs some discussion.  Users may have seen the earlier version and wonder about this.  I will transfer this comment to the new PR and we can discuss how to handle this there.

weight: 20
---

> `KeptnConfig` defines configuration values for the Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`KeptnConfig` defines configuration values for the Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit.
```

Author: done

   Must be set to `KeptnConfig`.`

* **metadata**
  * **name** -- Unique name of this set of configurations.
    Names must comply with the
    [Kubernetes Object Names and IDs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/names/#dns-subdomain-names)
    specification.

* **spec**

>   * **oTelCollectorUrl** -- The URL and port of the OpenTelemtry collector

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * **oTelCollectorUrl** -- The URL and port of the OpenTelemetry collector
```

Author: done

  * **keptnAppCreationRequestTimeoutSeconds** --
    interval in which automatic app discovery searches for workloads
    to put into the same auto-generated [KeptnApp](app.md).

Each [KeptnApp](app.md) should have a single `KeptnConfig` CRD
that describes all configurations for that application.

## Usage

## Example

### oTel example

This example specifies the URL of the OpenTelemetry collector
and the interval for
running the automatic app discovery:

```yaml
apiVersion: options.keptn.sh/v1alpha2
kind: KeptnConfig
metadata:

>   name: otel-url

Reviewer: I would name this something like `klt-config` to make it clear that this is for KLT in general.
```suggestion
  name: klt-config
```

Author: done

spec:
  OTelCollectorUrl: 'otel-collector:4317'
  keptnAppCreationRequestTimeoutSeconds: 40
```

## Files

API Reference:

* [KeptnTaskDefinition](../crd-ref/lifecycle/v1alpha3/_index.md#keptntaskdefinition)

> * [KeptApp](app.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [KeptnApp](app.md)
```

Author: done

* **metadata**
  * **name** -- Unique name of this set of configurations.
    Names must comply with the
    [Kubernetes Object Names and IDs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/names/#dns-subdomain-names)
    specification.

* **spec**
  * **oTelCollectorUrl** -- The URL and port of the OpenTelemtry collector
  * **keptnAppCreationRequestTimeoutSeconds** --
    interval in which automatic app discovery searches for workloads
    to put into the same auto-generated [KeptnApp](app.md).

Each [KeptnApp](app.md) should have a single `KeptnConfig` CRD

> that describes all configurations for that application.

Reviewer: That's not actually the case. You can have one `KeptnConfig` per KLT. So usually users should only have one config in their cluster.

Author: done
